# Elliptic Curve Point Encoding
*taken from [ieee_std_1363-2000](https://gitlab.inf.unibe.ch/crypto/2021.cosmoscrypto/-/blob/master/standards/ieee_std_1363-2000.pdf)*<br>

In this standard we find the following 6 primitives defined:
- Integer to bit string (I2BSP)
- Bit string to integer (BS2IP)
- Bit string to octet string (BS2OSP)
- Octet string to bit string (OS2BSP)
- Finite field elements to octet strings (FE2OSP)
- Octet string to finite field element (OS2FEP)
- Elliptic curve point to octet string (EC2OSP)
- Octet string to elliptic curve point (OS2ECP)

## Integer to bit string conversion (I2BSP)

Integer shall be written in its unique l-digit representation base 2 

$`x = x_{l-1}2^{l-1} + x_{l-2}2^{l-2} + ... + x_l2 + x_0`$

Where $`x_i`$ is either 0 or 1. Then let the bit $`b_i`$ have the value $`x_{l-i}`$ for $`1 <= i <= l`$. The bit string shall be $`b_1b_2...b_l`$ <br>

For example, the integer 10945 is represented by a bit string of length 19 as 000 0010 1010 1100 0001.
The primitive that converts integers to bit strings is called the Integer to Bit String Conversion Primitive, or
I2BSP. It takes an integer x and the desired length l as input, and outputs the bit string if $`2^l > x`$. It shall output
“error” otherwise. <br>

## Bit string to integer conversion (BS2IP)
The primitive that converts bit strings to integers is called the Bit String to Integer Conversion Primitive, or
BS2IP. It takes a bit string as input and outputs the corresponding integer. <br> *Note that the bit string of length
zero (the empty bit string) is converted to the integer 0.*

## Bit string to octet string conversion (BS2OSP)

To represent a bit string as an octet string, one simply pads enough zeroes on the left to make the number of bits a multiple of eight, and then breaks it up into octets. More precisely, a bit string $`b_{l–1}b_{l–2} … b_0`$ of length
$`l`$ shall be converted to an octet string $`M_{d–1} M_{d–2} … M_0`$ of length $`d = \lceil l/8 \rceil`$ as follows: <br>
for $`0 ≤ i < d – 1`$, let the
octet $`M_i = b_{8i+7} b_{8i+6} ... b_{8i}`$ . The leftmost octet $`M_{d–1}`$ shall have its leftmost $`8d – l`$ bits set to zero; its
rightmost $`8 – (8d – l)`$ bits shall be $`b_{l–1} b_{l–2} … b_{8d–8}`$.

## Octet string to bit string conversion (OS2BSP)
The primitive that converts octet strings to bit strings is called the Octet String to Bit String Conversion
Primitive, or OS2BSP. It takes an octet string of length d and the desired length l of the bit string as input.
OS2BSP shall output the bit string if $`d = \lceil l/8 \rceil `$ and if the leftmost $`8d – l`$ bits of the leftmost octet are zero; it
shall output “error” otherwise.

## Finite field element to octet string conversion (FE2OSP)
An element $`x`$ of a finite field GF (q), for purposes of this standard, is represented by an integer if q is an odd
prime or by a bit string if q is a power of two. If q is an odd prime, then to represent x
as an octet string, I2OSP shall be used with the integer value of x and the length $`\lceil log 256 q \rceil`$ as inputs. If q is a
power of two, then to represent x as an octet string, BS2OSP shall be applied to the bit string representing x.
The primitive that converts finite field elements to octet strings is called the Field Element to Octet String
Conversion Primitive, or FE2OSP. It takes a field element x and the field size q as inputs, and outputs the
corresponding octet string.

## Octet string to finite field element (OS2FEP)
To convert an octet string back to a field element, if $`q`$ is an odd prime, then OS2IP shall be used with the
octet string as the input. If q is a power of two, then OS2BSP shall be used with the octet string and the
length $`\log_2{q}`$ as inputs. <br>
The primitive that converts octet strings to finite field elements is called the Octet String to Field Element
Conversion Primitive, or OS2FEP. It takes the octet string and the field size q as inputs and outputs the
corresponding field element. It shall output “error” if OS2BSP or OS2IP outputs “error.”

## Elliptic curve to octet string conversion (EC2OSP)
There are two different ways to serialize elliptic curve points: Compressed and uncompressed. In the uncompressed form, both x and y coordinates of the EC point are stored, so the point is essentially a tuple $`(x_p, y_p)`$. In the compressed form, only the x-coordinate and an additional bit are stored. <br>
Compressed form: $`(x_p, ŷ_p), x_p`$ = x-coordinate, $`ŷ_p`$ a bit that's computed as follows: <br>

1. if the field size $`q`$ is an odd prime, then $`ŷ_p = y_p \mod 2`$ &nbsp; ($`y_p`$ = rightmost bit of $`y_p`$) 

1. if field size $`q`$ is a power of 2 and $`x_p = 0`$, then $`ŷ_p = 0`$ 

1. if the field size $`q`$ is a power of 2 and $`x_p \neq 0`$, then $`ŷ_p`$ is the rightmost bit of the field element $`y_px_p^{-1}`$ 

The actual representation of a EC point `P` in bytes looks like the following: PO = PC || X || Y with PC being a single octet of the form `00000UCŶ`, where <br>

- `U` is 1 if the format is uncompressed or hybrid, 0 otherwise 

- `C` is 1 if the format is compressed or hybrid, 0 otherwise  

- `Ŷ` is equal to the bit $`ŷ_p`$ if the format is compressed or hybrid, 0 otherwise 

- `X` is the octet string of length $`\lceil \log_{256} {q} \rceil`$ representing $`x_p`$ according to FE2OSP <br> 

- `Y` is the octet string of length $`\lceil \log_{256} {q} \rceil`$ representing $`y_p`$ of P according to FE2OSP if the format is uncompressed or hybrid; Y is an empty string if the format is compressed 

## Octet string to elliptic curve conversion (OS2ECP)
It takes the octet string and the field size $`q`$ as inputs and outputs the
corresponding elliptic curve point, or “error.” It should use OS2FEP to get $`x_P`$ . It should use OS2FEP to get
$`y_P`$ if the format is uncompressed. It should use point decompression to get $`y_P`$ if the format is
compressed. It can get $`y_P`$ by either of these two means if the format is hybrid. It should output “error” in the
following cases:

- If the first octet is `00000000` and the octet string length is not 1
- If the first octet is `00000100`, `00000110`, or `00000111` and the octet string length is not
$`1 + 2 \lceil \log_{256}{q}\rceil `$
- If the first octet is `00000010`, `00000011` and the octet string length is not $`1 + \lceil \log_{256}{q}\rceil `$
- If the first octet is any value other than the six values listed above
- If an invocation of OS2FEP outputs “error”
- If an invocation of the point decompression algorithm outputs “error”

NOTE: The first five bits of the first octet `PC` are reserved and may be used in future formats defined in an amendment
to, or in future version of, this standard. It is essential that they be set to zero and checked for zero in order to distinguish
this format from other formats.

## Decompression of y coordinates (prime case)
The following algorithm recovers the y coordinate of an elliptic curve point from its compressed form. <br>
Input: 
- A prime number $`p`$; 
- an elliptic curve $`E`$ defined modulo $`p`$; 
- the $`x`$ coordinate of a point $`(x, y)`$ on $`E`$; 
- the compressed representation $`ỹ`$ of the $`y`$ coordinate

Output: The y coordinate of the point
1. Compute $`g := x^3 + ax + b \mod p`$.
2. Find a square root $`z`$ of $`g`$ modulo $`p`$ via A.2.5. If the output of A.2.5 is “no square roots exist,”
then return an error message and stop.
3. Let $`z̃`$ be the rightmost bit of $`z`$ (in other words, $`z \mod 2`$).
4. If $`z̃ = ỹ`$ , then $`y ← z`$, else $`y ← p – z`$.
5. Output $`y`$.

NOTE—When implementing the algorithm from A.2.5, the existence of modular square roots should be checked.
Otherwise, a value may be returned even if no modular square roots exist.

##  Decompression of y coordinates (binary case)
The following algorithm recovers the y coordinate of an elliptic curve point from its compressed form. <br>
**Input:** 
- A field $`GF (2^m )`$; 
- an elliptic curve $`E`$ defined over $`GF (2^m )`$; 
- the $`x`$ coordinate of a point $`(x, y)`$ on $`E`$; 
- the compressed representation $`ỹ`$ of the $`y`$ coordinate 

**Output:** The $`y`$ coordinate of the point

1. If $`x = 0`$, then compute $`y := \sqrt{b}`$ and go to step 7.
2. Compute the field element $`α := x^3 + ax^2 + b`$ in $`GF (2^m )`$.
3. Compute the element $`β := α (x^2 )^{-1}`$.
4. Find a field element $`z`$ such that $`z^2 + z = β`$ via A.4.7. If the output of A.4.7 is “no solutions
exist,” then return an error message and stop.
5. Let $`z̃`$ be the rightmost bit of $`z`$.
6. Compute $`y := (z + z̃ + ỹ ) x`$.
7. Output $`y`$.

NOTES
1. When implementing the algorithm from A.4.7, the existence of solutions to the quadratic equation should be
checked. Otherwise, a value may be returned even if no solutions exist.
2. If both coordinates are compressed, the x coordinate must be decompressed first and then the y coordinate
(see A.12.10). <br><br>


# Helper methods

## A.2.5 Finding square roots modulo a prime
The following algorithm computes a square root $`z \mod p`$ of $`g ≠ 0`$. <br>

**Input**: An odd prime p, and an integer g with 0 < g < p <br>
**Output**: A square root modulo p of g if one exists. In case III, the message “no square roots exist” is
returned if none exists. <br>

- $`p ≡ 3 (\mod 4)`$; that is, $`p = 4k + 3`$ for some positive integer $`k`$ (see Lehmer [B100]).
   - Compute and output $`z := g k + 1 \mod p`$.
$`p ≡ 5 (mod 8)`$; that is, $`p = 8k + 5`$ for some positive integer $`k`$ (see Atkin [B16]). <br>
<br>
- Compute $`γ := (2g)^k \mod p`$ via A.2.1.
   1. Compute $`i := 2gγ^2 \mod p`$.
   1. Compute and output $`z := g γ( i −1 ) \mod p`$. <br>
   <br>

- $`p ≡ 1 (\mod 8)`$
   1. Set $`Q ← g`$.
   2. Generate a value $`P`$ with $`0 < P < p`$ not already chosen.
   3. Compute via A.2.4 the quantities $`V := V_{(p + 1)/2} \mod p`$ and $`Q_0 := Q^{(p – 1)/4} \mod p`$.
   4. Set $`z ← V ⁄ 2 \mod p`$.
   5. If $`(z^2 \mod p) = g`$, then output z and stop.
   6. If $`1 < Q 0 < p – 1`$, then output the message “no square roots exist” and stop.
   7. Go to step 2 .


## A.4.1 Squaring and square roots
**Polynomial Basis** <br>
If <br>
$`α = α_{m–1} t^{m–1} + … + α_2 t^2 + α_1 t + α_0`$ <br>
then <br>
$`α_2 = α_{m–1} t^{2m–2} + … + α_2 t^4 + α_1 t^2 + α_0 \mod p(t)`$ <br>
To compute $`α`$, take $`α`$ and square $`m – 1`$ times.

**Normal Basis** <br>
If α has representation $`α = (α_0 α_1 . . . α_{m–1} )`$ 
then <br>
$`α 2 = (α_{m–1} α_0 α_1 . . . α_{m–2} )`$ <br>
and <br>
$`α = (α_1 . . . α_{m–2} α_{m–1} α_0 )`$

## A 4.4 Division

The quotient $`α /β`$ can be computed directly (in one step by an algorithm with inputs α and β), or indirectly
(by computing the multiplicative inverse β –1 and then multiplying it by α). There are two common methods
for performing division in a finite field GF (2^m ), one direct and one indirect.

**Method I: the extended Euclidean algorithm** <br>
This algorithm produces the quotient directly. (It also can be used for multiplicative inversion of $`β`$, and so
for indirect division, by using as input 1 in place of $`α`$). By $` \lfloor r_0 (t)/r_1 (t) \rfloor`$ is meant the quotient upon
polynomial division, dropping any remainder.<br>
**Input**: A field $`GF (2^m )`$, and field elements $`α`$ and $`β ≠ 0`$ <br>
**Output**: γ := α /β <br>
1. Set $`r_0 (t) ← p(t)`$.
2. Set $`r_1 (t) ← β`$.
3. Set $`s_0 (t) ← 0`$.
4. Set $`s_1 (t) ← α`$.
5. While $`r_1 (t) ≠ 0`$ <br>
   5.1 Set $`q(t) ← \lfloor r_0 (t)/r_1 (t) \rfloor`$. <br>
   5.2 Set $`r_2 (t) ← r_0 (t) + q(t)r_1 (t)`$. <br>
   5.3 Set $`s_2 (t) ← s_0 (t) + q(t)s_1 (t)`$. <br>
   5.4 Set $`r_0 (t) ← r_1 (t);`$ &uml; $`set r_1 (t) ← r_2 (t)`$. <br>
   5.5 Set $`s_0 (t) ← s_1 (t);`$ &uml; $`set s_1 (t) ← s_2 (t)`$. <br>
6. Output $`γ := s_0 (t)`$. <br>


NOTE: The extended Euclidean algorithm uses a polynomial basis representation for $`GF (2^m )`$. If a normal basis
representation is being used, then one can divide using this algorithm only by converting the inputs $`α`$ and $`β`$ to a
polynomial basis representation, performing the division, and converting the output γ back to normal basis form.


**Method II: exponentiation** <br>
The multiplicative inverse of $`β`$ can be found efficiently in either basis representation via <br>
$`β^{-1} = β^k`$ <br>
where $`k`$  is any positive integer satisfying <br>
$`k ≡ -1 (\mod r)`$ <br>
where $`r`$ is the order of $`β`$. In particular, it is always the case that <br>
$`β^{-1} = \beta^{2^m}-2`$ <br>

If a general-purpose exponentiation algorithm is used, then the best choice is $`k := r – 1`$.
However, there is also a specialized algorithm of Itoh, Teechai, and Tsujii [B81] for exponentiating to the
power k = 2 m – 2, which is more efficient than the generic method. The efficiency improvements are espe-
cially significant when squaring can be done quickly (e.g., in a normal basis representation). The procedure
is given below. <br>

**Input**: A field $`GF (2^m )`$ and a nonzero field element $`β`$ <br>
**Output**: The reciprocal $`β –1`$
1. Let $`m - 1 = b_r b_{r–1} ... b_1 b_0`$ be the binary representation of $`m – 1`$, where the most significant bit $`b_r`$ of $`m - 1`$ is 1.
2. Set $`η ← β`$ and $`k ← 1`$.
3. For $`i`$ from $`r – 1`$ downto 0 do <br>
   3.1 Set $`µ ← η`$. <br>
   3.2 For $`j = 1`$ to $`k`$ do <br>
   &uml; &uml;  3.2.1 Set $`µ ← µ^2`$ <br>
   3.3 Set η ← µη and k ← 2k. <br>
   3.4 If $`b_i = 1`$, then set $`η ← η^2 β`$ and $`k ← k + 1`$.
4. Output η^2 .


## A.4.7 Solving quadratic equations over $`GF (2^m )`$
If β is an element of GF (2^m ), then the equation
z^2 + z = β
has 2 – 2T solutions over GF (2^m ), where T = Tr (β). Thus, there are either zero or two solutions. If z is one
solution, then the other solution is z + 1. In the case β = 0, the solutions are zero and one.
The following algorithms compute a solution if one exists.
Input: A field GF (2^m ) along with a polynomial or normal basis for representing its elements; an element
β ≠ 0
Output: An element z for which z^2 + z = β, if such an element exists

**Normal basis** <br>
1. Let $`(β_0 β_1 ...β_{m–1})`$ be the representation of $`β`$.
2. Set z_0 ← 0.
3. For $`i = 1`$ to $`m – 1`$ do
   3.1. Set $`z_i ← z_{i–1} ⊕ β_i`$.
4. Output $`z ← (z_0 z_1 ...z_{m–1})`$.

**Polynomial basis** <br>
If m is odd, then compute z := half-trace of β via A.4.6. If m is even, proceed as follows:
1. Choose random ρ ∈ GF (2 m ).
2. Set z ← 0 and w ← ρ.
3. For i from 1 to m – 1 do <br>
   3.1 Set z ← z 2 + w 2 β. <br>
   3.2 Set w ← w 2 + ρ. <br>
4. If w = 0, then go to step 1.
5. Output z.

If the latter algorithm is to be used repeatedly for the same field, and memory is available, then it is more
efficient to precompute and store ρ and the values of w. Any element of trace 1 will serve as ρ, and the values
of w depend only on ρ and not on β.
Both of the above algorithms produce a solution z, provided that one exists. If it is unknown whether a
solution exists, then the output z should be checked by comparing γ := z 2 + z with β. If γ = β, then z is a
solution; otherwise no solutions exist